what ion is is it's basically a project
that Microsoft started contributing to
and you know kicked off around scalable
decentralized identifiers it's it's one
component of the work that we're doing
in the decentralized identity body of
work that we have internally and it's a
big component so what is a di di I saw a
level set by talking a little bit about
a di D it's a decentralized identifier
it's it's an upcoming standard in w3c
that codifies how strings like URI
strings as D IDs are code are developed
and you know what how they're
represented and basically it's it's like
an equivalent of a decentralized version
of like email addresses or user names
right if you wanted an ID that you could
have or multiple IDs that was not owned
by a company or other entity that's what
a div essentially represents and they're
backed by keys and endpoints right so
it's and if I had to get an analogy it's
very much like DNS today right you have
domain names and then you have DNS zone
files and you have the certificate
authority system on the security side so
what we want to do is sort of remove
from the system these centralized
entities and authorities right and
that's really important because you know
your IDs owning them is really the key
to unlocking some of the cooler parts of
like decentralized web technologies and
apps if you have their IDs owned by a
company it you know it's really a hazard
at a certain point it's it's all fun and
games well you know you have your
posting cat photos or like what you've
made for lunch or something on Facebook
you know via your Facebook ID if you
have one of those accounts but it's it's
a whole different ballgame where you
when you start storing like data
encrypted with keys that are attached to
IDs
you know app via sensitive data messages
between friends things like that and and
it becomes even more of like a moral or
Human Rights hazard if you were to start
associating proofs like very important
things about your life to it and that's
because there's really two to
catastrophic failure modes for
centralized IDs if you were to tie
everything to email addresses or user
names
the company can either cut you off you
know as we've seen some of these social
things or it can just go out of business
you know if someone's not running an
email server you're done so we want
systems that are a little bit stronger
and more censorship resistant and what
ion is is an implementation of something
called the side tree protocol which is a
blockchain ledger agnostic protocol on
top of Bitcoin and it does incorporate
ipfs for a key component of it so why do
we do why don't we create ion well you
know it's pretty trivial to create D ID
methods they call them like a you know
implementation of D IDs that are basic
one super simple D ID method is D ID key
and it's basically just a public key
right that's the identifying string you
can't roll your keys you can't do
anything because it's it's really just a
key and that's fine like if you just
want a burner and you throw it away or
something not really use it for anything
too serious you can you can do that but
if you wanted a scalable D ID system
that had the ability to roll keys and
you know change endpoints and all of
that stuff you would need something
that's a little more capable and and
actually able to stand up to the sort of
scale that we want to see the world
adopt and so we're really faced with
this trilemma of you know maintaining
decentralisation in a solution while
also achieving scalability and security
this is not something that you know
we've seen we had seen when we started
this work a couple years ago so we
really wanted to get to maximize all
three of these and you have to look at
really the scale of identity there's
some other D ID implementations that you
know have kind of taken in an easy way
out and said well we're just gonna have
D IDs just be for companies or
governments or something
we don't need B tzer's to have IDs so
they can just have keys and throw them
away and constantly churn and not have
their own say decentralized Twitter
handle for instance like that's just not
something they're they're looking to do
and that's a really convenient way to
take your scale from billions or tens of
billions down to like tens of millions
right but we didn't want to scapegoat
that we wanted to actually make it so
people could have IDs that could be used
for things like decentralizing social
services or craigslist or any of these
these implementations and so we have to
think about systems that scale to the
billions and for
it's a reality as Microsoft like if we
were to put this out as GA which is what
the path this is on you know we have
billions of users we need to be able to
service that sort of scale at day one
but DoD's don't only have to be for
humans that could be for devices or
enterprises or anything as well anything
that's an entity that you want to
represent my ID so what's required for D
IDs right without saying the word
blockchain because you know there's a
lot of BS in the space the requirements
are a global immutable append-only log
right you need somewhere to have these
state changes like if Alice creates a D
ID and she's in state one maybe she has
her current phone has a public key on it
and she wants to associate it with her
ID in point to maybe you know place
where she has some data completely
outside the system that's her initiating
state if she changes that state right
and she gets a new phone and wants to
roll that key to a new public key that
associate ID she's gonna need somewhere
where there's a global log where people
can can see this can see the state
change and can have secure awareness
that of her lineage of state right we
also want this log to not have any
central providers or authorities so that
it's censorship in tamper resistant
because you know if all he wanted was
you know a bunch of servers that run
some very simple Byzantine protocol
that's just based on like authorities in
the system trusted validate or no it's
voting it's just not very censorship
resistant and you know it's probably not
gonna stand up to the sort of guarantees
that we want to make
so that's really what dpi requires let's
see how we can maybe do that one key
realization we had is that the problem
of PKI specifically dpi is is not the
same as double spend so you don't really
need blockchain transactions at the
native layer to represent di D
operations it it's a little different
than that and what you need to
understand is that there is a correct
lineage right there's that there's a
lineage that a lat Alice may be created
a div notes in time one went to state
from state 1 to state 2 to state 3 but
but Alice doesn't spend her IDs right if
you remove out of the system the idea of
friendly names which these D IDs are not
there
big like you know 50 byte ugly strings
and you make it so so that you don't
support the concept of sale right like
I'm I'm Alison a sell my D ideas someone
on this I'm gonna have them buy it from
me it's gonna transfer like you would
cryptocurrency you can actually ride
atop the rails of double spend proof
systems and have something that scales
because it doesn't need that that level
of of protection so technical overview
so what is I on it's a public
permissionless overlay network that runs
on top of Bitcoin and leverages dpi dpi
protocol called SCI tree and site tree
is blotching gnostic you can implement
it on other things there's there's one
that's implemented on aetherium called
elements there's a trust block I believe
is along that secure key did on fabric
like you can implement on top of any
ledger but it can only ever be as
decentralized as ledger you implement it
on so there's some other systems out
there that you know obviously that are
based on trust Authority models and
stuff we didn't want that you know we
wanted something that even we were not a
trusted Authority in so I on doesn't
have any special protocol tokens it
doesn't have any validators it doesn't
have really any things you know
signatories Microsoft has no control
other than the fact that we you know we
contribute lots of code to it but that's
about it
so technical assumptions so there's no
tech no secondary consensus required in
fact the chain itself Bitcoin in ipfs
having the data is really the only
consensus necessary so there's no like
Byzantine protocol on top that nodes
don't talk and come to agreements on
anything they can be in agreement
mathematically so no conflicting states
are allowed Alice and Bob's IDs can't
you know change essentially like you
they can't change each other state based
on you know one getting a weird state or
another
I mean IDs not transferable so you can't
you know switch IDs you can't extend Bob
your ID like I talked about earlier so
what does ion look like in terms of the
system and this is where we'll start
talking a little bit about IP us and so
basically anyone can run a node inside a
note there's really three main pieces
there's a transaction writer a processor
some processing logic and then there's
an IP FS node
as well as the you know the underlined
chain node which would be like Bitcoin
here so if someone's running it like
let's say node one they can anchor in
Bitcoin one or up to 10,000 ID
operations so that could be like creates
or updates or recoveries or whatever the
OP is right and for all sorts of users
now if you wanted the most self
sovereign trust this way you'd run a
node and you create a transaction a set
of operations which are backed by some
ipfs files that I'll show and you would
anchor this anchor hash in Bitcoin and
if you just add one operation in your
batch of your own you would have to pay
the Bitcoin fee but you don't have to
ask anyone's permission it's sort of
like lightning in that way it's just
this some deterministic protocol so
there's if you follow the rules it
basically works but you probably don't
want to ever have everyone just paying
for Bitcoin transactions nor would it
scale so the reality is people will
probably send ops to other nodes
Microsoft's running one now and several
other companies are as well it's still
secure you're signing operations with
keys that never left your device that
you wholly owned and when you send an
auth to another node you're basically
the only relying on them to put it in
their batch and get it in the chain and
that's it and you can tell if they did
or didn't start early
like inspectable obviously because it's
Bitcoin now the hash that you put into
Bitcoin is an IP FS c ID and in that IP
f Scie links to a file called an acre
file and a couple other files that
include the actual verbose operation
data and what node 2 does and all the
other nodes in the in the site tree
network ion they're looking for these
hashes to come through bitcoin they're
inspecting op returns and they're
basically very concerned about these
hashes they wants as quickly as possible
to replicate and pin this data so when
they find one they reach out to all the
other nodes and this is actually the
only way that nodes communicate with
each other is through ipfs they look for
this data that backs these these files
that are anchored there and when they
start streaming it in they pin it so
it's it's replicating a subset
essentially of the IP of s in public
network which is these files and then
they process them in basically a
deterministic set of functions
that always outputs the same thing so
it's a it's a strongly eventually
consistent system that gets gets to the
same answer as nodes without having some
sort of secondary consensus what does it
look like the anatomy of an operation
this is where we'll talk a little bit
more of that ipfs inside Bitcoin there
is inside Bitcoin there is you know
transactions obviously embedded within
those are these these transaction hashes
and they're see IDs of the anchor file
anchor files linked to batch files the
difference here is that anchor falls are
small proving files
whereas batch files are like large
verbose the verbose data of PKI ops
right so if you just stored the anchor
files you would have trustless way to
on-the-fly resolve any D ID in the
system that about almost two orders of
magnitude smaller in size for nodes and
then if you store two all batch files
it'd be like full nodes the ascent the
equivalent right is if you didn't prune
you got like all the batch vault data
where we're developing the light nodes
stuff now so you can run a small
footprint right now anion node with an
ipfs node inside and bitcoin everything
will run about will run on a nook like
our target hardware as of 2017 I five
with like a half a gig terabyte of
storage and you know four gigs around so
you can run these on on normal devices
people could run at home one last
technical slide to understand what what
site ridi IDs are specifically I on is
there they're basically giant CRT T's
and if that word sounds weird to you a
CRT TV values them any multi writer sort
of collaborative app that you've ever
used like Google Docs you know where
Docs for instance for like a comedy
these are CRT T's they basically take in
deltas of changes from participants and
there's a coordinating server that takes
these changes and they're incremented
with integers as you can see on the
slide you know basically operations as
it were and they're joined together in a
logical and deterministic fashion now
traditional CRT T's use vector clocks
and the vector clocks are you trust the
participants to increment them and then
you trust the coordinator say Google or
Microsoft or someone else to put them
together what bitcoin does is gives us
one big vector clock Oracle which
is one forward counting vector clock
based on its block progression and
transaction ordering that is
deterministic so you can replay you
don't need to trust the participants for
what the vector was because it's Bitcoin
and you don't need to trust someone to
assemble it because it's a stick you
know it's a system that's deterministic
so we've essentially removed out of C R
DT systems that sent centralized
intermediary so what do we get massive
scale you know we're operating at you
know up to tens of thousands of
operations per seconds what we've tested
on this knock that's an absurdly large
number of D I D ops just to give you
sense of scale a thousand ops per second
would be the equivalent of getting 50
billion D IDs in to the system in a year
so you know if we were able to do that I
think we're pretty successful as a
community 50 billion dod's means
everyone's using it which is great
cost efficient right ten thousand
operations in one Bitcoin transaction
means that I don't really care too much
about fees and you know that's a
hundredth of a penny per op so it's not
too big a deal and it's permissionless
we wanted to remove ourselves as much as
possible from this we don't want
Microsoft to be some sort of gatekeeper
either we want to build something that
can live completely independently from
us and so you know what are we focused
on I'll skip this part because just you
know what updates me in the system we
think that the path to our bus network
is three stages we're going to get lots
of larger organizations to run the nodes
because they can do so right away and
miR all the data like full nodes and
that includes the IP FS data and then
start you know picking up that long tail
as we go and enable users to have you
know subsets of the ipfs data required
and sort of just build a robust mirrored
network of peers so how to get involved
my last slide all the work is hex
actually happens in decentralized
identity foundation site tree and I on
are both projects that are not within
Microsoft's own open-source repos we did
this work as a contribution to the
community and we've been working closely
with the ipfs folks for all of those
components and hope to upstream any you
know changes or anything that we can you
know help with there as they they come
to be but yeah just participate like
jump in you know run ion you know test
parts of ipfs and ion and help make it
better for both of these projects thank
you are there plans to use this
technology in Windows yeah so we do plan
to first Class D IDs in the ecosystem to
the point where they're just like any
other ID that Microsoft supports so for
instance like we support social off
logging into our apps and you know all
this other stuff as well as MSA like
Microsoft accounts through help looking
stuff but we want to make sure that D
IDs are supported the same exact way
that you can log into Windows eventually
apps and stuff like that with Open ID
Connect we have a D ID based version of
Open ID Connect that you're the issuer
right there is no IDP in the middle and
we intend to support that in our
products very cool
next question could the D IDs be shared
across all the blockchain
implementations of side treat by default
no no right now you can't like you can't
like create a d ID this is I've thought
a lot about this that's right I really
wanted to do this a long time ago but
you can't create a D ID that's like
essentially rooted in one chain or all
of them at once the problem is actually
relativistic it's like you you don't
actually know if a transaction on one
chain or another happened at what time
so you would need like some bird Oracle
to essentially align all those states
and tiebreak and understand all these
things I'm not saying it's like I don't
know that it's not completely impossible
but it certainly is something that was
out of my ability to figure out that's
really interesting
Oh last question up curious if ion has
any upcoming milestones and features
need from ipfs to enable those
milestones yeah so my you know our next
milestone after beta is going to be
getting this thing I'm off you know and
and just fully v1 final and you know
rolling the network out and obviously
for Microsoft you know that that means
just for us that we're running our node
obviously it's scaled but we want to
help the bigger the wider ecosystem that
all the nodes get to a point where the
underlying code is hardened and you know
battle-tested we think that might take
another few
but we certainly hope to do that in this
calendar year in terms of what ipfs can
help us do right now we're using JSI PFS
so it'd be great to have native you know
ability with you know the DHT
implemented in JSI pia ipfs and some of
the other things that Ingo ipfs that are
like you know present there and not
maybe yet present in jess ipfs yeah
great I think we're definitely looking
at getting that DHT hopefully completing
a spec soon and then leveraging that
from what's been done and go to ramp up
on that and Jas and hopefully get to up
deliver to the next few months okay
can an ion network based on a different
blockchain interoperate with the dick
wound so I wouldn't call it an ion
network so ion is the Bitcoin
instantiation I would call whatever they
call their network so for instance on
decide to implement on on the theorem
right now it's called elements it is a
separate network they are separate so if
you have a D ID in element and a DI you
know ion they resolve to those
respective constructs and there's no
like they're interoperable in the sense
that the D ID document offends back and
the way that they work is the same
because it's like 80% shared code
between them but they are distinct
networks the only thing they have in
common is ipfs actually so that's the
same network what are the consequences
if the blockchain is broken so
interesting thing about ion and this is
actually a change we had just made is
ion is is crypt is quantum resistant in
the sense that Bitcoin bitcoin is
secured by sha-256 there is there's a
reasonable degree we believe that
hashing functions are more secure
obviously than EC Grover's algorithm
only gives you about a doubling like it
only halves the difficulty right that
you would need to correct to be able to
reverse hashing or so that's the thought
right so so we do this thing called pre
commitments in I on where you pre commit
to a key that's a connect reveal scheme
it's kind of like beta script beta key
hash in Bitcoin R you're not actually
revealing your next updates keys yet so
you you basically get
a point where if there's a quantum break
on some sort of ECC underlying crypto
foundation you would roll your key and
sign it quickly and then roll into a
commitment against maybe like some sort
of lattice encryption or something that
is quantum resistant on the on the
signature side so but the the network
itself in the history is secured almost
all by sha-256 so it's it's rather
resistant ok is there any blocker you
see in the future in terms of IP fest
technology feature included I mean gosh
is so I know one one thing that we
haven't explored yet but that I really
want to see if we can leverage is the
pub/sub stuff I know that there's like
been traditional you know I worked at
Mozilla previous to Microsoft and you
know there's traditional issues with
flooding of certain pure technologies
you know you just get certain attacks
when you have open look up sub but if we
can hard not and be able to use that to
do certain pings in terms of resolution
of D IDs to make it easier for lighter
nodes like I would there's some things
in there on pub sub that that we could
work on